---
layout: project
title: 3. Client Report for Final Prototype
description: 
technologies: 
image: /assets/images/odpfinalprototype.png
toc: True
images:
  - /assets/images/odpfinalprototype.png
---
In approaching the issue of spotted lanternfly (SLF) infestation and contamination of grape harvests, we decided to focus on the stage of the mechanical harvest process in which grapes are loaded onto a conveyor belt that ultimately leads to a large collection container to be transported from the vineyard. The sub-problem we focused on was that SLFs are present with the grapes on this conveyor belt, and consequently in the final container. We chose this sub-problem because if we could remove SLFs at this step in the process, we could minimize re-entry and avoid the risk of quassinoids contaminating the grape juice in the container. This sub-problem imposed the constraints on our product that it would have to function reliably to remove unwanted material from a moving conveyor belt, and would also need to have a way to attach to the conveyor belt. With these constraints and our sub-problem in mind, we decided that an attachable vacuum design would be a promising potential solution that could sort unwanted material by its difference in mass, and could easily be designed to attach to a conveyor belt.
Our final design is a cyclone separator, inspired by industrial dust separators that remove particles without needing a bag that has to be replaced. Our design works by sucking up the SLFs from the stream of grapes on the conveyor belt into the cyclone body. Since the cyclone inlet is tangential to the cyclone body, the SLFs are separated from the airstream through centrifugal force and subsequently deposited into a collection container, where they can be disposed.

Our design consists of several parts, including a commercial vacuum, a cyclone body, an adjustable nozzle, an adjustable stand, and a collection container. The nozzle positions the airflow to just above the conveyor belt for maximum suction. The stand allows the height of the nozzle to be adjusted to conveyor belt, while the aperture at the tip concentrates or diffuses the airflow, adjusting the suction for different sizes & stages of SLFs and grapes. The commercial vacuum attached to the top of the cyclone body provides the suction necessary to remove the SLFs from the grape, and the cyclone body itself separates the SLFs from the airstream. The collection bin contains all the SLFs which fall down from the cyclone, and can be filled with insecticide to ensure the SLFs are killed without having chemicals enter the harvest, or can incorporate a shredder for a chemical free solution.
The entire device is 3D printed for rapid manufacturing and assembly, which can be done within 24 hours. The nozzle is assembled by screwing on the iris to the tip, before sliding the nozzle into the cyclone’s inlet. The collection bin is screwed to the bottom of the cyclone, then the cyclone is slid onto the stand. Lastly, the vacuum nozzle is inserted into the top of the cyclone, and sealed with hot glue.

To operate, the client simply clamps the stand of the cyclone to the side of the conveyor belt. The height of the stand is adjusted so that the nozzle is just above the incoming grapes. The aperture size is adjusted according to the size of the SLFs, with a smaller opening corresponding to heavier SLFs. The conveyor belt and the vacuum are then turned on to allow for SLF removal. Once harvesting is completed, the client can remove the collection bin and dispose of the collected SLFs.

We found that a fully open aperture diameter of 5 cm, had the highest SLF to grape capture ratio of 5:1. For this prototype, this is the ideal setup since we want to minimize the ratio of grapes to SLFs sucked up. The next step is to size the device up so the nozzle covers a greater area above the conveyor belt. Our ‘optimal setup’ test will need to be conducted again to find the best aperture diameter. With a larger device, a higher power vacuum will be needed (industrial vacuum instead of a shop vacuum) and pressure differences across the area of the nozzle needs to be modeled. The ‘optimal setup’ test will need to be modified to track the ratio of SLF to grape captured across different regions of the nozzle to see if these differences in pressure matter. From the testing of the prototype, we believe that the SLF Snatcher can effectively separate SLFs from grapes on the mechanical harvester if the optimal suction configuration is applied. With the larger device, we are ready to perform field-testing with real grapes and SLFs, and we can monitor the effects of implementing multiple SLF Snatchers along the conveyor belt.

We performed three separate tests to test the reliability, collection, and optimal setup of the system. For the reliability test, we ran the system for one hour continuously to see if any parts would break or fail. We conducted this test because in the real world, the system would be running for hours on end as the grape collection process takes a lot of time. We found that one pin from the aperture came loose, however, the aperture was still functioning properly, so the system is capable of running for an extended period of time. For the collection test, we wanted to see if the model grapes and SLFs will fall into the collection bin after getting sucked up. We conducted this test because if the materials that get sucked up end up in the vacuum, that will affect the suction power, so we want all the materials to go into a separate bin. The results showed that 100% of all materials sucked up will end up in the collection bin instead of the vacuum or back into the environment. The last test we conducted was to find the optimal balance between aperture diameter and height such that the most SLFs were sucked in while minimizing the amount of grapes sucked in. This is important to test because we don’t want a suction power so strong such that everything gets sucked up or vice versa. To find this optimal configuration, we tested the lowest height and varied the aperture diameter, and repeated this for incremental increase in height. We found that the best performing configuration was the lowest height of 3cm with an aperture diameter of 5cm. The system sucked up 5/10 model SLFs and 1/10 model grapes. Compared to the other configuration, this result was the best in terms of ratio of SLFs to grapes sucked up. During the exhibit day, our demos supported this configuration as 100% of model SLFs and 0% of model grapes were sucked in, which proves to the grape growers that our system has a high chance of success in the real grape collection process. 

To go more in depth about the prototype, our final design was the second iteration of the prototype. For the first prototype, our system was overall smaller and the max aperture diameter was 4cm compared to 5cm now. The walls of the cyclone for the first prototype were 1cm in thickness which caused the system to break due to blunt force. We increased the thickness to 2cm for the final prototype. For the testing, we simulated a conveyor belt by putting the test models on a wooden plank and physically moving the plank at a constant speed. We made model SLFs and grapes the same way: by wrapping a small amount of clay in paper and duct tape such that they weigh 1g and 5g respectively. For our lowest height setting of 3cm above conveyor belt, we found that an aperture diameter of 2cm had the strongest suction power and sucked up 7/10 model grapes and 9/10 model SLFs. We did not go with this configuration because the ratio of model SLFs to model grapes sucked up was not optimal. The data suggested a linear pattern such that for every 1cm increase in aperture diameter, the amount of grapes and SLFs sucked up decreased by 2 and 1 respectively. 
